# Air Pollution in India
Rising urbanization, booming industrialization, and anthropogenic activities lead to air pollutant emissions and poor air quality. One of India's key health and environmental concerns is Air pollution. In 2019, air pollution has been ranked among the top five global risk factors of mortality by the Health Effects Institute. One-third of deaths in India every year are due to air pollution hence the nation requires an urgent proper control strategy for reducing the enormous air pollution. Air pollution poses a larger risk to people with heart or lung illness, the elderly, and children. 
Acute respiratory tract infections, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, exacerbations of pre-existing obstructive airway disease, and lung cancer are proven adverse respiratory effects of air pollution. Apart from respiratory diseases pollution also results in low visibility and causes road accidents, delayed flights, increased frequency of acid rains, reduced sunlight, and depletion of flora and fauna. In 2019, air pollution in India resulted in 1.6 million deaths, it is the largest pollution-related death toll in the entire world and accounted for $36.8 billion in economic losses.
On November 8, 2017, the National Capital Air Quality Index crossed the pollution levels of 999, making it the worst of all. The Team decided to work on ‘Air Quality Data’ because it is one of the biggest threats to human life in India and it is a concern that needs to be addressed on an urgent basis. 
The project proposal is to minimize the risk of air pollution. The dataset contains air quality data and AQI (Air Quality Index) at various stations' hourly and daily levels across major cities in India. The analysis will help in creating strategies to minimize mortality caused by air pollution. As one-third of deaths in India, every year are due to air pollution this analysis will help in minimizing respiratory problems faced by the citizens living in the mentioned cities.
